So this is all of them,
they're all loaded at this point,
we made the network request and we set it.
So you can see, starts out with nothing.
It's a pretty fast API
mostly cuz it's just reading
from a single table in SQLite and
sending it along the way.
So that's cool, but we talked
about that ephemeral state around
getting our data is are we loading
the data, was there an error, right?
Cuz right now if we go ahead,
we go to Network,
and we're like, hi,
I'm offline now, and we refresh.
Well, hold on, I'm simulating an error,
I could also break the API or
something like that, that'd be fun.
Yeah, I mean, I can't come up with
a way that I can both turn the Internet
off to create a failure, but
it will just constantly error right now.
We're not gonna do anything, we're not
gonna display anything under the page.
So yeah, and
we don't have a loading state,
there are definitely things that take
a little bit longer to load an API, right?
So we wanna might have those
other pieces in there as well, so
what would that look like?
I mean,
we could just set a lot more state, right?
We could set loading and error and
begin to manage all of those,
and that's not an abysmal
thing to try to do, right?
So we could do something like, all right,
we can assume that it's loading by default
when the component first mounts, right?
So we'll do loading, and setLoading,
and that'll be useState will be true.
And we'll say error and
setError = useState and
we'll give it a null for now,
and probably you could use undefined too.
So now we have all these pieces, so
now we could say, all right, well, and
let's assume that this is
something they could retrigger.
We could have a button to refetch or
something like that, so
let's at least make this generic
enough that we could reuse it.
So then we would say, what is it,
setLoading any time this call
starts out we'll set it to true.
We'll clear out the previous data.
Now, that might change,
you might want to do a dynamic reload.
If they come back to a page,
it might be we're show them a spinner,
we keep the old data around.
This is, again, depends a lot on
the unique pieces of your application and
if we're fetching, if there was previously
an error, we'll make it go away.
Now, again,
you'd might choose to persist there,
this is all up to you, I'm just
taking a by base level approach here.
All right, well then,
if we did get a response,
then we have to setLoading as false and
we'll setError.
Well, we don't have
an error at this point.
If we catch,
Then we'll setloading to false and
we'll set error to the error.
I don't love this,
it feels like I am dong a lot manual
turning things on and off, right?
If only there was a way to just
announce that things happened and
set up a bunch of rules for
what the resulting state should be.
Anyone have any suggestions
cuz I'm at a loss.
>> Is there a hook for that?
>> We could make a hook.
I mean,
we can build stuff out of it, right?
I mean, there's probably
a third party hook as well.
How do we announce that things
happened and figure out the state?
>> Dispatch.
>> You dispatch, yeah, you use a producer-
>> Producer.
>> Right, and so now we can say
the different parts like, all right,
we're gonna start loading.
We've gotten the response or
there is an error, and
that can then trigger all of
these flags for us, right?
And to that point, that becomes
a much more reusable pattern, right?
Now we can say that we wanna do all
of these things, so on and so forth.
So, we've got it here, now let's
just actually add our loading and
error and then we'll round back to that.
And again, probably we would do something
a little bit more complicated, but
let's keep it simple for the sake of the
parts that actually matter for learning.
And we'll [INAUDIBLE] say, all right,
if they are loading, go ahead and
just show a paragraph tag the says
loading, that's fine, right?
Otherwise, we'll show the set characters,
so either show loading or
the characters that way we're
not showing nothing on the page.
And then if there is an error for
some reason, we'll say error.
This happens to be a class
name that I know exists.
It say error.message.
And so you gotta look for it real fast,
we can see that loading, so
now we've got that ephemeral
state of our application.
We could choose to show a spinner or
something else that goes along the way,
we can not show large portions
of the UI or only navigate them.
But now we have this idea of are we
currently fetching the data,
do we have it already, is there an error?
We have all of these kind of things
both represented in our state and
represented in our UI.
Now, if we wanted to, we could pull
this out into a custom hook and
we'll see some of
the trade-offs in a second.
So we'll start with pulling it
out into a custom hook, and
then we'll look at
another approach as well.
And I am not gonna say one is right and
one is wrong.
I have preferences, but there's not
a universal this is the yes and
this is the no way.
I think some people can
argue against me as well.
So, yeah, there is a chance that we want
to fetch many things from the API, right?
And we do not want to write
this every time, so, yeah,
could we pull it out into a hook?
We could, right?
Again, making it a little bit
more reuseable can be tricky, so
we'll say usefetch, and
that might be the URL that we want.
All right, and we'll just say, I'll make
one new piece of state cuz the only part
that's not super generalizable in here is
the fact that we're actually pulling out
the characters and setting characters.
So I don't necessarily wanna take that
piece cuz it's not pulling the characters
property of the JSON object all the time,
it's not, quote, unquote, reusable.
So we might offload that either to let
them pass in a call back function for
how to format the data or let them
do it in the component themselves,
whatever makes you happier.
But we'll pull in pretty
much the rest of this,
And we'll say const,
we'll just call response,
And setResponse, And
that will be useState,
I'll paste the rest of that in there.
So now we've got just, instead of set
characters, it will be setResponse.
Same thing here.
So now we have this, if we give it a URL,
it will figure out how to save some state
on the response, the loading,
the error, all that stuff.
Abstract it out of the actual component
cuz the component shouldn't care about
this stuff, right?
It just wants to know
the state of the world so
it can figure out what
to show in this case.
Cool, so we could do something like,
and now instead of using state,
we'll just use, All right,
this doesn't return anything yet,
so we've gotta do that as well.
So we'll have it return the response,
the loading state, and an error state.
All right, and these are set in
the state that it's maintaining and
it exposes only those things.
It hides all this fetching,
flipping bits on and off,
it doesn't worry about
any of that anymore.
That is maintained solely by this hook,
the actual component using
it is just like, yeah, yeah, yeah,
I need to fetch from endpoint.
And it just tells it what
it wants to fetch from, and
we don't think about the rest, okay?
>> Do you want a d in endpoint?
>> I think I do, feels right.
Feels like spelling our variables
right is probably the right choice.
This is why you live code with 15 friends.
So here we'll get the response,
the loading, and the error.
Now, response is gonna have that character
stuff, which is a little bit tricky,
so we'll probably need to
format that a little bit,
but we'll deal with that momentarily.
So response is either going to be null or
it's gonna be that object with characters.
So I need to just basically check,
like, hey, do I have a response?
If not, I wanna use that default, and
if so, we'll get what we need off of it.
So I'll just say, Characters
is simply going to be, hey,
do you have a response?
And does that have a characters object?
If not, give me an empty array.
So if if response is not null, and
that object has a characters property,
give me that,
otherwise give me an empty array.
Which is very similar to what we have with
the empty array and then we set it, and,
again, it's just JavaScript for that.
So I wrote a lot of code
without checking to see page,
which fills me with absolute fear.
So let's go ahead and see what we got.
Lord, it works.
I'm gonna refresh that,
I don't believe it.
All right, so, yes, I would pull this
out into another file, this usefetch.
And now elsewhere in my application,
I'm in charge of formatting the data and,
to be clear, I'm only passing at endpoint.
If I wanted to pass in a second function,
which is how to format that response,
I could totally do that, right?
And then I don't even have to do this
inside of the actual component, right?